---
layout: categories
title:  "Volterra-Laguerre Polynomials"
date:   2014-05-05 15:04:23
category: pubs
tags: []
---
Conference paper presented at the 2014 AIChE spring meeting in New Orleans, LA.

## Title:

> Generalized Laguerre Reduction of the Volterra Kernel for Practical Identification of Nonlinear Dynamic Systems

### Abstract:

> The Volterra series can be used to model a large subset of nonlinear, dynamic systems. A major drawback is the number of coefﬁcients required model such systems. In order to reduce the number of required coefﬁcients, Laguerre polynomials are used to estimate the Volterra kernels. Existing literature proposes algorithms for a ﬁxed number of Volterra kernels, and Laguerre series. This paper presents a novel algorithm for generalized calculation of the ﬁnite order Volterra-Laguerre (VL) series for a MIMO system. An example addresses the utility of the algorithm in practical application.

Don't be too critical, it was my first paper and I wrote it in my spare time while also doing my day job.

Honestly, I can't even find how to access the paper through AIChE, but here is a link to the [meeting schedule][meeting], and the [presentation][presentation] (if you are interested in paying to hear to ramble).

Instead, I recommend looking at the arXiv [pre-print][arxiv] that uses a different data-set than the AIChE paper, but is otherwise identical.

[meeting]:      https://aiche.confex.com/aiche/s14/webprogram/Session27102.html
[presentation]: http://www.aiche.org/academy/videos/conference-presentations/generalized-laguerre-reduction-volterra-kernel-practical-identification-mimo-system
[arxiv]:        https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.0741


